---
title: VeSPA&#58; Data Release 1.0 on Zenodo and AAS Research Notes
categories:
    - Research
tags:
    - SuperWASP
    - Zooniverse
---

I recently [added VeSPA data release 1](https://www.superwasp.org/blog/2021/Oct/01/the-vespa-data-release-archive/) to [Zenodo](https://zenodo.org/record/5526860):

> Each data release will also have a DOI via Zenodo. This allows researchers to cite the exact data release they used in any research they publish. A copy of each data release is also archived on the Zenodo website in perpetuity.
>
> It’s important when research is published that the original data behind that research is also made available. This allows other researchers to reproduce the original results and to build on them for their own work. Keeping a permanent copy of each version of the data helps to achieve this.

And I've written up [a short description of VeSPA in Research Notes of the AAS](https://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.3847/2515-5172/ac2de8):

> We present the first results from the SuperWASP Variable Stars (SVS) citizen science project. The photometry archive of the Wide Angle Search for Planets has previously been searched for periodic variations and the results of this search formed the basis of the SVS project on the Zooniverse. The SVS project asks volunteers to visually inspect light curve plots and categorize each one according to a broad classification scheme. Results from the first two years of SVS have now been published online as the SuperWASP Variable Star Photometry Archive (VeSPA). The archive can be browsed online, downloaded in full, or queried, filtered, and sorted to export a refined set of results. An interactive light curve viewer also allows any light curve to be folded at a user-defined period. Analysis of citizen science results and development of VeSPA features are both ongoing. Updated results will be published every six months.